Impact of RAID Settings on Performance 
from: http://download.intel.com/support/motherboards/server/sb/configuring_raid_for_optimal_perfromance_11.pdf

1 Write Policy
The Write Policy can have a very big impact on write performance. There are two modes
available – Write Back and Write Thru.

1.1 Write Back Mode
This mode provides better performance in most cases. In Write-Back mode, the RAID controller
acknowledges write I/O requests immediately after the data loads into the controller cache. The
application can continue working without waiting for the data to be physically written to the hard
drives.
If a power loss occurs in write-back mode, there is a risk of losing data in the RAID cache. The
data loss may be fatal and may require restoring data from a backup device. It is critical to have
protection against power failures. Using a UPS with redundant system power supplies is highly
recommended. RAID Backup Battery Unit can provide additional protection.

1.2 Write Thru Mode
This mode does not utilize the RAID cache for accelerating write I/O requests. In most cases it
will be slower than Write-Back mode. However, Write Thru mode allows achieving the highest
sequential write bandwidth with RAID 0 or RAID 10.


2 Disk Cache Policy
Disk Cache Policy determines whether the hard-drive write cache is enabled or disabled. When
Write Policy is set to Write Thru mode, Disk Cache Policy can have very big impact on write
performance. When Write Policy is set to Write Back mode, impact of Disk Cache Policy is
much smaller and in many cases negligible.
When Disk Cache Policy is enabled, there is a risk of losing data in the hard drive cache if a
power failure occurs. The data loss may be fatal and may require restoring the data from a
backup device. It is critical to have protection against power failures. Using a UPS with
redundant system power supplies is highly recommended. RAID Backup Battery Unit can
provide additional protection.
Note: A RAID Backup Battery Unit does not protect the hard drive cache. 
Impact of RAID Settings on Performance Configuring RAID for Optimal Performance


3 Read Ahead Policy
The Read Ahead Policy determines whether the RAID controller will read just a block of data
that an application has requested, or whether it will read the whole stripe from the hard-drives.
This setting can have big impact on read performance.

3.1 No Read Ahead (Normal)
The RAID controller will read only the block of data that the application has requested. This
mode is preferred when read requests are primarily random. Also this mode is recommended
when measuring sequential read throughput with IOmeter* under Windows.

3.2 Always Read Ahead
The RAID controller will read the whole stripe containing the requested data block and will keep
it in cache. Each read operation will consume more hard drive resources, but if the read
requests are primarily sequential it can substantially reduce the amount of read requests to the
hard drives and can substantially increase performance.
Note: This setting will only make difference if the typical read request size is smaller than the
stripe width.

3.3 Adaptive Read Ahead
The RAID controller automatically adjusts the read policy based on the current pattern of read
requests. It combines the benefits of No Read Ahead and Always Read Ahead modes. This
mode is recommended if the workload has mixed sequential and random patterns, or if the
pattern is unknown.

4 I/O Policy
The I/O Policy determines whether the RAID controller will keep data in the cache, which can
reduce the access time if subsequent read requests are made to the same data blocks.

4.1 Direct I/O
Direct IO mode is recommended in most cases. Most file systems and many applications have
their own cache and do not require caching data at the RAID controller level.

4.2 Cached I/O
In Cached I/O mode the controller caches both read and write requests. If there are subsequent
read requests to the same data blocks, they are read from the RAID cache instead of the hard
drives. This mode may be required if the application or file system does not cache read
requests.


5 Strip Size
Strip size determines how data is distributed across hard drives. It also determines how many
drives are accessed to service a single I/O request. Strip size can have big impact on 
Configuring RAID for Optimal Performance Other Performance Factors

performance. Typically, sequential workloads benefit from using large strip sizes (512 KB or 1
MB).
With random types of access, the strip size depends on the typical access block size and on
data alignment. For example, if a database is using 16 KB records with 16 KB alignment, the
optimal strip size can be 16KB. For file- or web-server a large (512 KB or 1 MB) strip size can
be optimal. Software vendor documentation often provides recommendations on how to select
RAID strip sizes.
Note: Matching the strip size to the file system cluster size does not usually provide any benefit.
Data block or file sizes used by the application are usually more important. However, setting the
strip size smaller than the cluster size is not recommended.


