How to Move a XenServer Pool to a Different IP Subnet
http://support.en.ctx.org.cn/ctx123477.citrix


This article describes how to change the IP subnet assigned to the management network on a XenServer pool. This is a longer procedure than just changing...
Objective
This article describes how to change the IP subnet assigned to the management network on a XenServer pool. This procedure is long compared to changing the IP address while staying in the same subnet.

Requirements
Working knowledge of XenServer and XenCenter and basic knowledge of the Command Line Interface (CLI) and XenServer console

Access to the physical console of the servers to safely perform the required operations

Proper network and firewall configuration on the LAN to allow the required network traffic to pass (this includes connections to ISO libraries)

Instructions
To change the IP subnet assigned to the management network on a XenServer pool, complete the following procedure:

1. Perform a metadata backup and back up the virtual machines before performing the rest of this procedure.

2. Disable High Availability from XenCenter, if enabled.
Note: Perform the IP changes on the slaves first.

3. Log on to a pool member from the physical console and change the management interface IP address:
From the xsconsole, select Network and Management Interface > Configure Management Interface.

Note: xsconsole freezes when you apply the change. You can use the key sequence CTRL+Z to open the command prompt to complete step 4. Then, use the fg %1 command to return to xsconsole and exit cleanly.
From the CLI: Run the following command:
xe pif-reconfigure-ip uuid=<UUID of host management PIF> IP=<New IP> gateway=<GatewayIP> netmask=<Subnet Mask> DNS=<DNS Lookup IPs> mode=<dhcp,none,static>

To locate the correct PIF uuid for pif-reconfigure command, run the following command:
xe pif-list params=uuid,host-name-label,device,management

4. From the CLI, run the following command:
xe-toolstack-restart
The server enters the emergency mode. Ensure that the server is using the new IP address. You can ping it from another host. Try a Secure Shell connection to it, or use the ifconfig command. Run the xe host-is-in-emergency-mode command from the CLI to ensure that the server is in emergency mode. You should get True as the output.
Note: Reboot is recommended if the server does not enter the emergency mode.

5. Repeat Steps 3 and 4 on each of the pool members.

6. Change the management interface IP address on the pool master using Step 3.

7. Run the following command on the pool master:
xe-toolstack-restart

8. DO NOT RUN THIS COMMAND ON THE POOL MASTER
From the CLI, on each of the pool members, run the following command:
xe pool-emergency-reset-master master-address=IP_OF_THE_MASTER.

9. Verify the correct status of the pool. Connect with XenCenter to the new master IP address and check everything from there.

10. Re-enable High Availability, if required.